+++
title = "Security basics"
+++

{{%bubble %}}

## Security basics

**Points:** X

**Description:** You understand the fundamental security good practices for cloud infrustructer and can work with most common tools with minimal supervision.

**Person which succesfully completed requirement for given block can:**

- Ability to write code using AWS security best practices
- Understand basic threats and measures to prevent them
- Understand basic concepts such as encryption, SSL, etc.
- Work with existing Vault instance

{{% /bubble%}}

### 🎓 Learn
### 📝 Katas
- Create different IAM Policies
- Work with IAM Users, Policies and Roles
- Create a small AWS Organization
- Create different AWS Security groups following best practices (ie. scope open ports to minimal number, etc.)
- Setup basic security principles in AWS for new IAM users
- Create a new key/value store in Vault and add new values to it using:
  - CLI
  - Terraform
  - UI
- Generate a Self-Signed SSL/TLS Certificate
### 🎤 Interview
- What is the default policy of a security group?
- Explain the difference between role and user?
- Describe the process of applying certificates generated by AWS Cert Manager and 3rd part stores (GoDaddy, Let’s Encrypt etc).
- What kind of problems can you solve with Vault?
- What the default policy in Vault for not specified action in a policy
- What is the root user in Vault and why it's dangerous to use it?
- How TLS works
- How SSL works
- What is the role of Certificate Authority
- Explain encryption at rest and in transit
- What is a bastion(jump) host?
